`inventory` provides a new Puppet command which outputs a data structure
describing properties of the system on which it's run.

[![Puppet Forge](http://img.shields.io/puppetforge/v/puppetlabs/inventory.svg)](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/puppetlabs/inventory) [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-inventory.png)](http://travis-ci.org/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-inventory)

Here's a quick example:

```
$ puppet inventory | head -n 20
{
  "schema_version": 1,
  "created": "2016-07-14T07:42:01Z",
  "resources": [
    {
      "title": "root",
      "resource": "group",
      "gid": 0
    },
    {
      "title": "bin",
      "resource": "group",
      "gid": 1
    },
    {
      "title": "daemon",
      "resource": "group",
      "gid": 2
    },
    {
```

Specifically `inventory` outputs information on:

* Users
* Groups
* Packages
* Services
* Facts

If you have the [Lumogon
module](https://forge.puppet.com/puppetlabs/lumogon) installed then it
will also detect information about running Docker containers.

All of this information is already available via the RAL and `puppet
resource` or via `facter`. `inventory` simply offers a higher-level
interface, a single command that outputs everything in a simplified data
format.


## Installation

`inventory` is packaged as a Puppet Module, and can be installed from
the Forge like so:

    puppet module install puppetlabs-inventory

You can also include in your `Puppetfile` if using r10k or
librarian-puppet:

    mod 'puppetlabs/inventory'


## Demonstration

A simple way of demonstrating the module is to use Docker. Docker is
not required, it just makes for nice single line examples. The following
should be run from a checkout of this repository.

Output inventory information for the `puppet/puppet-agent-alpine` image
from Hub:

    docker run --rm -it -v $(pwd):/src:ro -e RUBYLIB=/src/lib puppet/puppet-agent-alpine inventory

Output the same information but instead of formatted JSON render the
output as YAML:

    docker run --rm -it -v $(pwd):/src:ro -e RUBYLIB=/src/lib puppet/puppet-agent-alpine inventory --render-as yaml

Only generate the resources portion of the output:

    docker run --rm -it -v $(pwd):/src:ro -e RUBYLIB=/src/lib puppet/puppet-agent-alpine inventory resources

Only generate the facts portion of the output:

    docker run --rm -it -v $(pwd):/src:ro -e RUBYLIB=/src/lib puppet/puppet-agent-alpine inventory facts

If you're doing something specific to Puppet you can also output the
full Puppet Catalog. This is also an easy way of seeing how Puppet works
under the hood.

    docker run --rm -it -v $(pwd):/src:ro -e RUBYLIB=/src/lib puppet/puppet-agent-alpine inventory catalog

The above examples all use images which already have Puppet installed on
them. This example runs an inventory of the vanilla `centos` image,
which does not have Puppet installed. It does that by mounting Puppet
from another container as described in the [Puppet-in-Docker
examples](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet-in-docker-examples/tree/master/puppet-at-runtime):

    docker run --name puppet-agent -v /opt/puppetlabs puppet/puppet-agent-ubuntu --version
    docker run --rm -it --volumes-from=puppet-agent -v $(pwd):/src:ro -e RUBYLIB=/src/lib centos /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet inventory all

Puppet inventory is also available as a [Docker Image from
Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/puppet/puppet-inventory/). So the
following is a clearer way of doing the above

    docker run --name puppet-inventory puppet/puppet-inventory
    docker run --rm -it --volumes-from=puppet-inventory centos /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet inventory


## Status and Schema Version

This is an early prototype at the moment and based on experience with
writing clients for the generated format the structure of the data
produced may change a lot between now and a 1.0 release of the module. I
will increment the `schema_version` key in the output if/when I make
changes but until the module hits a 1.0 release don't expect any
backwards compatibility guarantees.


## Maintainers

This repository is maintained by: Gareth Rushgrove <gareth@puppet.com>.
